<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>XXIX: 6:30 A.M.—As Is Mirage</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-29" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h2 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XXIX</h2>
				<p epub:type="title">6:30 <abbr>A.M.</abbr>—As Is Mirage</p>
			</hgroup>
			<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Endicott stared sharply at Lieutenant Valcour. She was suddenly tensely alert.</p>
			<p>“I think,” she said, “that you have gone mad.”</p>
			<p>“Do you still maintain the pretence that when you were on the sill of your window and looking toward your husband’s room you saw nobody on the balcony?”</p>
			<p>“There is no reason why I should alter the truth.”</p>
			<p>“I shall be as patient with you, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Endicott, as you have just been with me. Listen carefully to me, please, and I will tell you why it is I believe Marge Myles killed your husband, and why I think you have given her sanctuary after the crime by concealing her some place within this house.”</p>
			<p>“I’ve no alternative but to listen, Lieutenant. But you are wrong⁠—absurdly wrong.”</p>
			<p>“We will start with the initial premise, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Endicott, that Marge <em>did</em> murder Harry Myles in that canoe episode on the lake. I know that she has been paying blackmail to her stepmother, Madame Velasquez, for a long while, probably since the time of the crime itself. Well, a woman of her type doesn’t pay hush money easily; she makes very certain, first, that the blackmailer really has the goods on her. Which made it simple for your husband.”</p>
			<p>“Herbert? Are you suggesting the fantastic idea that Herbert was trying to blackmail her?”</p>
			<p>“People are blackmailed into giving up more things than money, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Endicott. I’m not suggesting that your husband was after money, but I do suggest that to further some abortive purpose <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Endicott held the postscript forgery that you made over Marge Myles’s head as a threat. I have just found that letter in his trunk, and it is now in my pocket.”</p>
			<p>“Abortive purpose⁠—Don’t go on just for a moment, please⁠—I’m trying to make it fit.”</p>
			<p>“It’s something along the lines of cruelty that I’m suggesting⁠—some special cruelty.”</p>
			<p>“Perhaps. Herbert liked to see things squirm. He was subconsciously sadistic.”</p>
			<p>“He probably drove her pretty far, because she made up her mind to get that letter⁠—he undoubtedly greatly magnified its importance as evidence to her⁠—no matter at what risk to herself. I don’t really believe that when she came here last night she had any intention at all of actually killing your husband. What she wanted was that letter. Did you let her into the house, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Endicott?”</p>
			<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Endicott smiled a bit acidly and kept her lips tightly compressed.</p>
			<p>“Because if you didn’t,” Lieutenant Valcour went on, “she must have stolen a key from your husband. At any rate, she was in the house here and searching for the letter in <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Endicott’s room sometime around seven last night. <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Endicott should have been miles away up at her apartment, according to appointment, and leaving her a clear field. She had planned the whole thing out pretty carefully, because she left a note for Madame Velasquez, who was due to arrive at the apartment for a visit last night. Marge implied in the note that it had been written after seven when, as a matter of fact, it must have been written considerably earlier and planted in the apartment either as an alibi or as an explanation to <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Endicott of her absence. It would certainly have sent him hurrying off to the Colonial in search of her. It wasn’t successful, of course, as he was undoubtedly delayed because of the quarrel he had with you, and was here in the house instead of up at her apartment as she had expected he would be. Don’t you see that it rather all fits in?”</p>
			<p>“Quite. But I still fail to understand what possible connection it can have with me.”</p>
			<p>“It has every connection with you, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Endicott, because unless we can prove that Marge Myles fired the shot this morning that killed your husband it will be unpleasantly necessary to establish the charge against yourself.”</p>
			<p>“I am probably very stupid, Lieutenant, but it is incomprehensible to me why I should shoot my husband around two or three o’clock this morning because Marge Myles was searching for a letter in his room at seven last night.”</p>
			<p>“Consider the problem, please, as two separate crimes and follow it through on that basis. At seven o’clock last night we have Marge Myles searching the pockets of your husband’s clothes in his cupboard. He comes into the room, and she finds herself trapped in the cupboard. He opens the door, and the sudden terrifying sight of her gives him a heart attack. She believes him dead and drags him into the cupboard so that his body will not be found until she has had a chance to escape. She hasn’t returned to her apartment, you know, all night, so it’s quite possible she has either taken flight or is in hiding some place in the city.”</p>
			<p>“Then I can’t, as you have suggested, be hiding her in the house.”</p>
			<p>It was Lieutenant Valcour who now assumed the role of teacher, with <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Endicott as his young pupil.</p>
			<p>“Not under that supposition. But if she did escape from the house at that time, what have we left? You found the scrap of paper on which she herself wrote a hinted threat in an effort to divert suspicion, and the writing of which was inspired by the distraught mental condition she must have been in. You called the police, and we found <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Endicott. Your suspicions jumped unerringly to the man who was uppermost in your thoughts: <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Hollander. He, you said to yourself, had done this thing to save you. Consequently, when you learned that <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Endicott had been revived and was expected to make a statement, you shot him to prevent his accusing <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Hollander, and you arranged your alibi with considerable ingenuity by only pretending to have taken the narcotic.”</p>
			<p>“It makes quite a case, doesn’t it?”</p>
			<p>“Yes, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Endicott, quite a case.”</p>
			<p>“And the alternative? You did suggest that there was an alternative.”</p>
			<p>“That Marge Myles has never left the house at all. That she is still here. And this is what the prosecuting attorney will offer to the jury: that with your knowledge she got onto the balcony through one of the windows in your room, shot <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Endicott, returned to your room, and was hidden by you some place around this house.”</p>
			<p>“All of which is unfortunately negatived, Lieutenant, by the fact that it was my slipper you found outside the window, and not hers.”</p>
			<p>“The prosecuting attorney can alter the action of the scene to suit that, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Endicott. After Marge Myles got onto the balcony you were terrified at the thought of what you had become a party to. You made an effort to recall her, when the shots were fired and threw you into a panic. You dropped your slipper and got back into the room.” Lieutenant Valcour became quietly persuasive. “Which of my two theories shall I believe? I can make you no promises, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Endicott, because any confession that has been given under an understanding that there will be an amelioration of punishment loses value in court. But I can suggest to you that if you choose to make things easier for justice the act may prove beneficial for yourself. There are more unwritten laws than the common one so generally known.”</p>
			<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Endicott looked at him queerly.</p>
			<p>“You don’t worry me,” she said, “at all. Any course that I might take can have but a common, a desired ending. The method of achievement is utterly inconsequential to me, as long as the ultimate result remains the same.”</p>
			<p>She was mounted again, Lieutenant Valcour decided, upon her hobby which carried her along indifferent trails to death. The apparent strength of her obsession rendered any further efforts on his part futile. In the attic there was, for him, no longer anything of mystery or the beauty of shrouded things. It was an ugly, littered room peopled by a smartly turned out beauty who, like a petulant and spoiled child reaching for the moon, sought further mysteries in that life which beckons from beyond life, and by a tired, oldish fellow standing stupidly in his stockinged feet away from his shoes.</p>
			<p>“Come downstairs with me, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Endicott,” he said. “As soon as my men have thoroughly searched this house you will be formally charged.”</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
