<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>XXVII</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-27" epub:type="chapter">
			

<div class="chapter" id="ch27">

<h2>Chapter XXVII. <br/> 5:46 a. m.—Mrs. Endicott Cannot Be Found</h2>

<p>Lieutenant Valcour stepped across the corridor
and rapped on the door of Mrs. Endicott’s room.
There was no response. He rapped again, and still
there was no response. He turned the knob and the
door swung inward.</p>

<p>The room was empty.</p>

<p>He closed the door and called to Cassidy, who was
at the other end of the corridor.</p>

<p>“Sir?” said Cassidy, when he had joined him.</p>

<p>“You’ve been out here all the while, haven’t you,
Cassidy?”</p>

<p>“Except when I went upstairs to get the
housekeeper, sir.”</p>

<p>“That’s right, you did. Come inside here for a
minute with me. There are some questions I want to
ask you.”</p>

<p>They went into Endicott’s room.</p>

<p>“Sure, it’s good to see the daylight again,
Lieutenant. Will we be cleared up here soon?”</p>

<p>“I have a feeling that we’ll be finished pretty soon
now. Tell me, Cassidy, was it you or Hansen fired
first at Hollander?”</p>

<p>“Lieutenant, Hansen and I have been disputing
that very point. We all but came to blows over it,
we did.”</p>

<p>“Why so?”</p>

<p>“Because I claim it was him who fired the first
shot, and he still has the audacity to say it was me
who not only shot first, but shot two times before he
so much as pulled the trigger.”</p>

<p>“That,” said Lieutenant Valcour, “is exactly
what I wanted to know. You were both right and
both wrong.”</p>

<p>“Now, how can that be, Lieutenant?”</p>

<p>“Neither of you fired the first shot, because it was
fired by the murderer over there at the window.
You heard it, and thought Hansen had fired. Hansen
heard it, and then heard your following shot, and
thought that you had fired twice.”</p>

<p>“That must have been it at that, Lieutenant.”</p>

<p>“It was. The second thing I wanted to ask you
about is Mrs. Endicott. She isn’t in her room.
Have you seen her about the corridor, or anywhere
else?”</p>

<p>“No, sir.”</p>

<p>“Then go and look her up. Ask the men downstairs
if they’ve seen her, and if they haven’t, look through
the rooms on this floor and up above. When you do
come across her, ask her if she will please come in
here and see me.”</p>

<p>“Yes, Lieutenant.”</p>

<p>Cassidy went out and closed the door.</p>

<p>Lieutenant Valcour was beginning to feel very,
very tired. He yawned elaborately, stared out of the
window for a minute or two, and then sat down
again at the desk. There was something that he had
intended to do there when he had been interrupted by
the arrival of Madame Velasquez.</p>

<p>What was it?</p>

<p>It wasn’t connected with that wretched premonition
of danger which was nagging at him with increasing
insistence. But it was something just as
intangible . . .</p>

<p>Elusive as a shadow . . .</p>

<p>Yes, that was it—the thing that he had forgotten:
he had intended to trace to its source that faint
scent which was so curiously reminiscent of some
place—some thing. It had come, he remembered,
from the aperture from which he had taken the
drawer. He shoved a hand inside and felt around.
Wedged far in the back was a crumpled letter written
on heavy notepaper. He pulled it out, and the scent
became more penetrating.</p>

<p>It came back to him quite clearly now. It was the
same perfume that had drenched the note left by
Marge for Madame Velasquez up at the apartment.
He took the letter from its envelope, smoothed it,
and then turned to the signature. Yes, it was signed
“Marge.”</p>

<p>A knock on the hall door interrupted him, and
he placed the letter on the desk. Hansen came in.</p>

<p>“Yes, Hansen?”</p>

<p>“I have searched all the yards you told me to, sir.”</p>

<p>“Well?”</p>

<p>“There wasn’t any gun, Lieutenant, that I could
see.”</p>

<p>“Did you look through all the shrubbery? There
are some evergreens down there that I noticed.”</p>

<p>“Yes, sir, I looked through and beneath every one
of them.”</p>

<p>“All right, Hansen.” Lieutenant Valcour studied
the young man facing him for a curious moment.
“You were at sea for a while, weren’t you?”</p>

<p>“Yes, sir. I was with the navy during the war,
and after that on merchant ships for a year or two.”</p>

<p>“Would it be possible for a sailor to climb up onto
the balcony outside this window from the garden?”</p>

<p>“I couldn’t say offhand, Lieutenant. I didn’t
notice much about the balcony when I was down
there.”</p>

<p>“Then go down again and see what you think.
Let me know whether it would be an easy job,
difficult, or impossible.”</p>

<p>“Yes, sir.”</p>

<p>Hansen went out, and Lieutenant Valcour had
barely returned his attention to the letter from Marge
Myles when there was another rapping on the door.
This time it was Cassidy who came in. Lieutenant
Valcour dropped the letter back upon the desk and
turned to him.</p>

<p>“Did you find Mrs. Endicott all right, Cassidy?”</p>

<p>“No, sir, I didn’t.”</p>

<p>Lieutenant Valcour felt strangely disturbed. He had
half expected Cassidy to answer in just that way; the
denial was nothing more than a fulfilment of the
curious premonitions he had been experiencing of
some subtle danger.</p>

<p>“Did you look in all the rooms?”</p>

<p>“Yes, sir.”</p>

<p>“Question anybody?”</p>

<p>“Everybody, Lieutenant. There’s no one has seen
hide nor hair of her.”</p>

<p>“How about the men at the doors?”</p>

<p>“Each one was at his post, sir. She didn’t go out.”</p>

<p>“Then in that case,” said Lieutenant Valcour,
“she must still be in.”</p>

<p>The thought was both a bromide and a consolation.
Nowadays, Lieutenant Valcour assured himself,
people didn’t vanish into thin air; it just wasn’t being
done. While concentrating in his mind as to the
possible whereabouts of the unfindable Mrs. Endicott,
his hands were mechanically placing the piles of
letters he had assorted back into the empty drawer.
He had shoved the letter from Marge Myles carefully
to one side. Any reading of it would have to
come later, after he had hit upon some logical
explanation for this sudden move on the part of Mrs.
Endicott.</p>

<p>“He must have been some stepper, Lieutenant,”
Cassidy said, eyeing with interest one disappearing
pack of pink envelopes.</p>

<p>“Quite a stepper, Cassidy.” . . . Where <em>could</em> she
hide? And why should she? . . .</p>

<p>“Each one of them piles from some dame?”</p>

<p>“That’s right, Cassidy—each one from some
dame.” . . . She wanted to get out of the house, one
could be pretty sure of that, and go to the hospital to
see Hollander. But how could she have got past the
men at the doors? She couldn’t. . . .</p>

<p>“It certainly does beat hell what some guys
can get away with, Lieutenant.”</p>

<p>“But it never does beat hell, Cassidy.” . . . And
Hansen had been out around the backyards, even
supposing she had attempted anything so unbelievable
as to scale fences. That was absurd. . . .</p>

<p>“It ain’t all a matter of looks, exactly—no, nor
money, either.” Cassidy’s glance toward the bed
was but half complimentary. “I’ve run with lads
that was one step this side of being human monkeys,
but could they pick them? I’ll say. They had sex
appeal. How about it, Lieutenant?”</p>

<p>“Undoubtedly, Cassidy.” . . . As for the roof, it
was peaked and offered no passage to the roofs of
the adjoining houses. One couldn’t picture her, in
any case, scrambling over roofs any more than
one could believe that she would scramble over
fences. . . .</p>

<p>“And the worst of it is with these bimbos that have
it, they ain’t ever satisfied.”</p>

<p>“No one is ever satisfied, Cassidy.” . . . There
might be a way to the roof at that, from the attic . . .
attic . . .</p>

<p>“Not ever with anything, Lieutenant?”</p>

<p>“Not really ever with anything.” . . . Attic . . .
and that curious look that one had had to interpret
as exaltation. It couldn’t be possible, but
still—— “Stay right here, Cassidy!”</p>

<p>Cassidy gave a nervous jump. The words were
sparks from flint striking steel. Lieutenant Valcour’s
sudden spurt of speed as he rushed toward the door
was surprising.</p>

<p>A possible solution to Mrs. Endicott’s absence
had just come to him with rather horrible clearness.</p>

</div>

		</section>
	</body>
</html>
