<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>XII</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-12" epub:type="chapter">
			

<div class="chapter" id="ch12">

<h2>Chapter XII. <br/> 12:30 a. m.—Madame Velasquez Stirs up Muck</h2>

<p>The taxi ran north along Fifth Avenue for a few
blocks and then bore left into the leafless, frosty
stretches of Central Park. It was deserted of
pedestrians. Occasional yellow lights showed the vacant
surface of benches and empty walks.</p>

<p>The average worthlessness of any person’s reactions
when suddenly confronted by the police, Lieutenant
Valcour reflected, was a curious phenomenon.
It was his belief that only rarely were such reactions
the result of the moment at hand. They were instead
a subconscious scurrying backward to some earlier
time when something had been done by that person,
or known by that person, which might then have
brought him into the grip of the law. No one—he
included himself in the arraignment—led a blameless
life. No, not even the saints, for they had their
periods of expiation, which in themselves presupposed
blemishes that required the act of expiation for their
erasure. And so it was with people when, even in the
rôle of the most innocent of bystanders, they were
confronted by the police. Inevitably there lurked a
certain fear, an instinctive thrusting out of defenses
as a guard against the chance discovery of that early
blemish. . . .</p>

<p>Take Hollander, for instance. Every word of his
telephone conversation had been a negative defense,
and yet one could not link it necessarily with the
attack on Endicott. No, not necessarily. It was
perfectly obvious that Hollander had <em>expected</em> something
to happen to Endicott, and equally obvious that he
was worried about the fact that Mrs. Endicott might
be involved in it, but one couldn’t say that he had
been involved in it himself. . . .</p>

<p>The taxi stopped. Lieutenant Valcour got out, paid
the driver, and dismissed him.</p>

<p>Riverside Drive seemed about ten degrees colder
than the midtown section of the city had been. Or was
it fifteen or twenty degrees? A northerly wind blew
iced blasts from the Hudson River and at him across
the treetops of the terraced park. Marge Myles,
Lieutenant Valcour decided as he took in the façade
of the building that housed her apartment, did
herself rather well.</p>

<p>A sleepy and irritable Negro casually asked him
“Wha’ floor—’n’ who, suh?” as he entered the
overheated lobby. The boy was smartly snapped into full
consciousness by the view offered him of Lieutenant
Valcour’s gold badge.</p>

<p>The proper floor proved to be the fourteenth.</p>

<p>As the hour was hovering about one in the morning,
Lieutenant Valcour was considerably surprised at the
promptness with which the door swung open in
response to his ring, and considerably more surprised
by the querulous voice that emerged from beneath a
wig, dimly seen in the poor light of a foyer, and said,
“Well, I must say you took your own time in coming.
Put your coat and hat on that table there, and then
come into the parlour.”</p>

<p>Lieutenant Valcour complied. He followed a dimmish
mass of jet bugles into the more accurate light
of a room heavily cluttered with gold-leafed furniture
and brocades.</p>

<p>“I’m Madame Velasquez—Marge’s ma. I ain’t
Spanish myself, but if there ever was a Spaniard, my
late husband Alvarez was.”</p>

<p>The wig on Madame Velasquez’s head offered no
anachronism to the bugles of her low-cut dress. Its
reddish russet strands were pompadoured and puffed
and showed at unexpected places little sprays of
determined curls. The face beneath it bore an odd
resemblance to an enamelled nut to which nature,
in a moment of freakish humour, had added features.</p>

<p>“Now I want you to tell me at once, Mr. Endicott,
what you have done with my little Marge.”</p>

<p>Lieutenant Valcour with curious eyes tried to
probe a closed door at the other end of the room.</p>

<p>“I expected to find her here, Madame Velasquez,”
he said quietly. “Isn’t she?”</p>

<p>“She ain’t. And what is furthermore, Mr. Herbert
Endicott, you know she ain’t.” Her voice had grown
shrill, but without much volume. It was rather the
ineffective piping of some winded bird.</p>

<p>“What makes you say that, Madame Velasquez?”</p>

<p>The bunched strands of artificial jewellery that
were recklessly clasped about Madame Velasquez’s
thin neck quivered defiantly.</p>

<p>“And you never met her here at seven,” she said.
“I suppose you’ll say you <em>wasn’t</em> to meet her here at
seven. Well, I got this note to prove it. There, now.”</p>

<p>She handed Lieutenant Valcour a sheet of
notepaper that reeked of some high-powered scent.</p>

<blockquote><div>

  <p>Make yourself at home, Ma [read the note]. Herb Endicott was
  to meet me here at seven. He didn’t come although he was to take
  me to the Colonial for dinner. I am going to the Colonial now and
  see if he is there. Maybe I did not understand him right, Ma.
  I will be home soon anyways.</p>

  <p class="signature">Marge.</p>

</div></blockquote>

<p>“And it is now,” said Madame Velasquez, “after
1 <span class="sc">a. m.</span>”</p>

<p>“She knew you were going to pay her this visit,
Madame Velasquez?”</p>

<p>“I telegraphed her this afternoon. I’m here for a
week. Where is she?”</p>

<p>“I don’t know where she is, Madame Velasquez.”</p>

<p>“Mr. Endicott, one more lie like that and I’ll call
the police.”</p>

<p>“That’s all right, Madame Velasquez. You see, I
am the police.”</p>

<p>The bugles, the jewels, the curls became still with
shocking abruptness, as a brake that without warning
binds tightly.</p>

<p>“You belong to the police?”</p>

<p>“Yes, Madame Velasquez—Lieutenant Valcour.”</p>

<p>He showed his badge.</p>

<p>“Then you ain’t Mr. Endicott?”</p>

<p>“No, Madame Velasquez.”</p>

<p>“Then he—she—they’ve gone and done it,
Lieutenant—they have run away.” Madame Velasquez
began to simper.</p>

<p>“I’m sorry, Madame Velasquez, but they haven’t
run away. Mr. Endicott, you see, was attacked this
evening. If he doesn’t live, whoever did it will be
charged with murder.”</p>

<p>There was a complete absence of expression in
Madame Velasquez’s tone. “And you think Marge
done it,” she said.</p>

<p>“Not necessarily so at all. Your daughter may very
well have met somebody else at the Colonial—some
other party of friends—and have joined it when Mr.
Endicott failed to show up. The Colonial is closed by
now, but perhaps she went on to some night club.
I shouldn’t worry.”</p>

<p>“Why should she go on to some night club when
she knew her ma was waiting for her here?”</p>

<p>Madame Velasquez’s thin hands, the fingers of
which were loaded with cheap rings, played nervously
with any substance they chanced to touch.</p>

<p>“Something’s happened to her, Lieutenant,” she
went on. “I always told her as how it would. Marge—I
told her a hundred times if I ever told her once—there’s
a limit to the number of suckers you can play
at one and the same time.”</p>

<p>“You think that some man who was jealous perhaps
attacked Endicott first and then got after her?”</p>

<p>“Man? Men, Lieutenant, men. That brat kept the
opposite of a harem, if you know what I mean.”</p>

<p>“She isn’t your daughter, really, is she, Madame
Velasquez?”</p>

<p>“She was Alvarez’s only child by his first wife—some
Spanish female hussy from Seville. What made
you guess?”</p>

<p>“The way you talked about her. But do keep right
on, Madame Velasquez. What a remarkable pendant—it’s
a rarity to see so perfect a ruby—may I?”</p>

<p>Madame Velasquez simpered audibly while Lieutenant
Valcour leaned forward and stared earnestly
at the bit of paste.</p>

<p>“My late husband, Lieutenant, used to say that
nothing was too good for pretty Miramar. That’s my
name, Lieutenant—Miramar.”</p>

<p>“Few people are so happily named, Madame
Velasquez. Tell me—let me rely upon your woman’s
intuition—just what did Marge expect from
Endicott?”</p>

<p>Madame Velasquez leaned forward confidentially.
An atmosphere as of frenzied heliotropes clung
thickly about her.</p>

<p>“Every last damn nickel she could get,” she said.</p>

<p>Lieutenant Valcour assumed his most winning
smile. “Scarcely an <i>affaire du cœur</i>, Madame
Velasquez.” If he had had a moustache, he would have
twirled it. “I suppose her early marriage embittered
her, rather hardened her against men?”</p>

<p>“Well, if it did I ain’t noticed it none.”</p>

<p>“Perhaps Endicott came under the heading of
business rather than pleasure?”</p>

<p>“Well, yes, and then no.”</p>

<p>“A happy combination?”</p>

<p>“Just a combination. Not so damn happy.”</p>

<p>“A little bickering now and then?”</p>

<p>“A lot.”</p>

<p>“Indeed? Marge was on the stage, wasn’t she?”</p>

<p>“If you can call it the stage nowadays,
Lieutenant.”</p>

<p>“In the chorus, wasn’t she?”</p>

<p>“Yes.”</p>

<p>“And Harry Myles saw her and carried her off.”</p>

<p>Madame Velasquez’s laugh was an art; unfortunately
not a lost one. “The millionaire marriage,”
she gasped. “My dear”—her hand found a resting
place on one of Lieutenant Valcour’s knees—“he
didn’t have a cent.”</p>

<p>“She felt disappointed, I suppose?”</p>

<p>“Disappointed!” Madame Velasquez fairly
screamed the word at him, like an angry parrot. Her
manner changed and became darkly mysterious. “I
know my little know,” she said. “You can believe
me, Lieutenant, little Miramar’s not the boob some
parties I could mention, but won’t, think she is.”
Her voice grew harsh with the gritty quality of a file.
“I’ll learn her to leave me in the ditch like this.”</p>

<p>“Then you think Marge purposely isn’t here to
greet you?”</p>

<p>It was a sweet little bunch of filth, taken all in all,
thought Lieutenant Valcour. It was perfectly plain:
Madame Velasquez either held definite knowledge
that Marge had killed Harry Myles, or else had
convinced Marge that she knew. And then Madame
Velasquez had simply bled Marge of all the money
she could get.</p>

<p>“Is Marge frightened easily, Madame Velasquez?”</p>

<p>“About some things.”</p>

<p>The reddish, dusty-looking curls nodded vigorously.
Lieutenant Valcour looked at his watch. It was
one-thirty. He stood up.</p>

<p>“Thank you for receiving me, Madame Velasquez.
If I leave you a telephone number would you care to
call me up when Marge comes in? Or will you be in
bed?”</p>

<p>“Leave your number, Lieutenant.” The seamy
enamelled face became more nutlike than ever. “I
got a thing or two to talk over with that female
Brigham Young.” She raised a be-ringed hand and
held it unescapably close to Lieutenant Valcour’s
lips.</p>

<p>He brushed them gently against a hardened coat
of whiting, smiled his pleasantest, and left, assisted
doorward by what might at one time have been
called a sigh.</p>

<p>He paused for a moment in the small foyer, after
putting on his hat and coat, and pencilled the
Endicotts’ telephone number on one of his cards. He
started back to give it to Madame Velasquez.</p>

<p>She wasn’t in the room where he had left her, and
the room’s other door stood ajar. He crossed to it
softly and looked in. Madame Velasquez—yes,
he convinced himself, it <em>was</em> Madame Velasquez—was
sitting before a dresser. Her wig was off, and her
heavily enamelled face peered into a mirror beneath
thin knots of corn-gray hair. As the lonely, weak old
voice rose and fell, Lieutenant Valcour caught a
word or two of what Madame Velasquez was saying:</p>

<p>“He didn’t know—if I went and told her once, I
told her a thousand times—he didn’t <em>know</em>.” There
followed a short, dreadful noise that passed as
laughter. “But <em>I</em> know—Miramar knows,
darling—you little lousy . . .”</p>

<p>Lieutenant Valcour retreated softly. He left the
card lying on a table. He went outside and closed the
door. He rang for the elevator and shut his eyes while
waiting for it to come up. There were times when
they grew a little weary from looking too intimately
upon life.</p>

<p>Down in the lobby he used the house telephone
and called up the Endicotts’.</p>

<p>“Lieutenant Valcour talking,” he said.</p>

<p>“O’Brian, sir.”</p>

<p>“Everything quiet?”</p>

<p>“Indeed and it is, sir.”</p>

<p>“Mr. Hollander get there yet?”</p>

<p>“He’s just this minute after arriving, sir. He’s
upstairs with Dr. Worth now.”</p>

<p>“Did he identify himself all right?”</p>

<p>“He did that, Lieutenant, with cards and a driver’s
licence.”</p>

<p>“Good. I’ll be along in about an hour now.
Good-bye.”</p>

<p>He was helped by the bitter wind as he walked east
to Broadway. He found a taxi and gave the driver
Hollander’s address on East Fifty-second Street. He
settled back and closed his eyes. He went to sleep.</p>

</div>

		</section>
	</body>
</html>
